
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="confined_block_masonry_house_argentina">Confined block masonry house, Argentina</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>

<h4 id="from_world_housing_encyclopedia">From World Housing Encyclopedia</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Report# 1
</p>
<hr />

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Confined block masonry house, Argentina&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;confined_block_masonry_house_argentina&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-113&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="general_information">General Information</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Building Type:</strong> Confined block masonry house
</p>

<p>
<strong>Country:</strong> Argentina
</p>

<p>
<strong>Author(s):</strong> Virginia I Rodriguez, Maria I Yacante, Sergio Reiloba
</p>

<p>
<strong>Regions Where Found:</strong> Buildings of this construction type can be found in San Juan Capital City and the surroundings. This type of housing construction is commonly found in urban areas.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Summary:</strong> This is typically a one-or-two-story residential building, of detached or semi-detached construction, generally found in the urban areas of San Juan and Mendoza and less frequently in the rural areas. The walls are made of concrete block masonry with reinforced concrete columns and beams that tie the walls together and provide the strength for the building. One of the main structural deficiencies for this construction type lies in the widely different wall densities in the two orthogonal directions. This deficiency may be eliminated with appropriat architectural design. This construction type is otherwise expected to demonstrate good seismic performance. 
</p>

<p>
<strong>Length of time practiced:</strong> 25-60 years 
</p>

<p>
<strong>Still Practiced:</strong> Yes
</p>

<p>
<strong>Building Occupancy:</strong> Single dwelling
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical number of stories:</strong> 1 or 2
</p>

<p>
<strong>Terrain-Flat:</strong> Typically
</p>

<p>
<strong>Terrain-Sloped:</strong> 3
</p>

<p>
<strong>Comments:</strong> This construction practice has been followed for 30 years.
</p>
<hr />

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;General Information&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;general_information&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;114-1437&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="features">Features</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Plan Shape:</strong> Rectangular, solid
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments on plan shape:</strong> The typical shape of a building plan for this housing type is rectangular.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical plan length (meters):</strong> 10
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical plan width (meters):</strong> 6.5
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical story height (meters):</strong> 3.3
</p>

<p>
<strong>Type of Structural System:</strong> Other
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments on structural system:</strong> The vertical load-resisting system is confined masonry wall system. It consists of concrete block masonry walls with reinforced concrete beams and columns. In some cases, concrete beams and columns are provided without the masonry walls, in which case this system behaves as a
frame; this depends on the architectural design. The lateral load-resisting system is confined masonry wall system. It consists of concrete block masonry walls with reinforced concrete beams and columns.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Gravity load-bearing &amp; lateral load-resisting systems:</strong> Masonry: Clay/concrete: confined brick/block masonry with concrete posts/tie columns and beams
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical wall densities in direction 1:</strong> 1-2%
</p>

<p>
<strong>Typical wall densities in direction 2:</strong> 5-10%
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments on typical wall densities:</strong> The typical structural wall density is up to 10 %. The total wall density is 0.116; it is 0.03 in the X-direction, and 0.08 in the Y-direction.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Wall Openings:</strong> The typical house has approximately seven openings, with an average area of 2.50 m2. The position of the openings differs from building to building, however generally there is a front door and a back or side door. There are windows in
the family room, in every bedroom and the bathroom. The opening area is about 13% of the overall wall area. 
</p>

<p>
<strong>Is it typical for buildings of this type to have common walls with adjacent buildings?</strong> No
</p>

<p>
<strong>Modifications of buildings:</strong> This building type hasn&#039;t many modifications else.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Type of Foundation:</strong> Shallow Foundation: Reinforced concrete strip footing
</p>

<p>
<strong>Type of Floor System:</strong> Other floor system
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments on floor system:</strong> The flooring system is a nervure slab made of concrete with hollow clay blocks and fill-in elements.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Type of Roof System:</strong> Roof system, other 
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments on roof system:</strong> The roofing system is nervure slab made of concrete with hollow clay blocks and fill-in elements. It is considered to be a rigid diaphragm.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Additional comments section 2:</strong> When separated from adjacent buildings, the typical distance from a neighboring building is 5 meters.
</p>

<p>
&lt;images&gt;
</p>
<hr />

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Features&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;features&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1438-3932&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="building_materials_and_construction_process">Building Materials and Construction Process</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="description_of_building_materials">Description of Building Materials</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Structural Element</th>
    <th>Building Material(s)</th>
    <th>Comment(s)</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Wall/Frame</td>
    <td>Hollow concrete block</td>
    <td>Compressive strength of the blocks varies from 2-50 kg/sq cm. The mix proportion used in making the mortars is 1:1:5 (cement-lime-sand). Wall thickness varies from 0.20 to 0.40 m. The walls have good resistance to compression and shear strength.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Foundations</td>
    <td>Concrete</td>
    <td>Compressive strength of the concrete used is 210 kg/sq cm. The mix proportion used in making the concrete is 1:3:5 (cement-sand- pebble). The foundation under columns is of size 0.60 m x 0.25 m. The foundation has average resistance to compression.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Roof</td>
    <td>The roof is made of reinforced concrete hollow clay blocks 
    </td>
    <td>The compressive strength of the concrete used is 210 - 420
kg/sq. cm. The mix proportion used in making the concrete is 1:2:4 (cement-sandpebble).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Other</td>
    <td>Beams and columns used for confining the masonry walls are made of reinforced concrete.</td>
    <td>The compressive strength of the concrete used is 210 - 420
kg/sq. cm. The mix proportion used in making the concrete is 1:2:4 (cement-sandpebble). The size of columns is 0.20 m x 0.20 m and that of beams is 0.20 m x 0.15 m.</td>
  <tr>
</table>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Building Materials and Construction Process&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;building_materials_and_construction_process&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3933-5466&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="design_process">Design Process</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Who is involved with the design process?</strong> EngineerArchitect
</p>

<p>
<strong>Roles of those involved in the design process:</strong> Architects are in charge of the architectural design of the building and sometimes, the construction process. Engineers are in charge of the structural design and of the construction process in general.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Expertise of those involved in the design process:</strong> The professionals involved in the design and construction process -architects and engineers- have a good level of expertise and great experience in this type of construction, typical in San Juan.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Design Process&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;design_process&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;5467-6063&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="construction_process">Construction Process</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Who typically builds this construction type?</strong> Other Roles of those involved in the building process The builder usually does not live in this construction type. It is designed and built by professionals and used in housing plans developed and financed by the state.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Construction process and phasing.</strong> The construction process is usually carried out by a construction company. It begins with the filling in of foundations, the assembling of the bottom reinforced
concrete beams and columns and the casting of these beams. Then the block masonry walls are being built and the concrete columns are being cast. Subsequently, the top reinforced concrete beams are assembled and the slab concrete is poured. The tools and equipment typically used are. spatulas, shovels, hoes, baskets, saws, pliers, levels, cement mixers, etc. This type of construction is generally
designed for its final constructed size, but usually the final
size is fulfilled in a later stage, as an extension of the original construction. Sometimes the owner also builds additional parts, generally without any professional input.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Construction Process&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;construction_process&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;6064-7201&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="building_codes_and_standards">Building Codes and Standards</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Is this construction type address by codes/standards?</strong> Yes
</p>

<p>
<strong>Applicable codes or standards:</strong> Yes, the 1951 Building Code of the Province of San Juan, Earthquake-proof Norms Concar 70, Argentinean Earthquake-proof Norms 80 and 1990 INPRES CIRSOC
Norms.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Process for building code enforcement:</strong> The provincial authorities approve the design and controls the construction process. To start the process of construction it is necessary to have the approval of the general and structure plans, the electrical wiring plans, plumbing, and gas plans. This approval is provided by the Provincial Authorities. A construction license provided by the Municipal Authorities is also required.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Building Codes and Standards&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;building_codes_and_standards&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;7202-7928&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="building_permits_and_development_control_rules">Building Permits and Development Control Rules</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Are building permits required?</strong> Yes
</p>

<p>
<strong>Is this typically informal construction?</strong> Yes
<strong>Is this construction typically authorized as per development control rules?</strong> Yes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Building Permits and Development Control Rules&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;building_permits_and_development_control_rules&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;7929-&quot;} -->